1

Distributed Task Allocation Under Temporal Logic and
Communication Constraints with Resilient Task Coordination
Abstract—Coordinating task allocation for heterogeneous
multi-robot systems under communication and temporal-logic
constraints is challenging because plans that are feasible offline
may become blocked or unrealizable during execution when
robots cannot maintain complete global information. To address
this, a distributed task allocation framework with resilient task
coordination is developed. The global task is translated into a
pruned Büchi automaton, decomposed into executable subtasks,
and initially allocated through a consensus-based timetable algorithm. To sustain task coordination under limited communication
range, the proposed framework incorporates two complementary
mechanisms: a patrol mechanism that actively gathers information to release temporally blocked subtasks, and a resilient
task coordination mechanism for collaborative subtasks that
integrates leader-based coordination, timeout-triggered recruitment, and free-market-based reassignment. In this way, the
framework couples distributed task allocation with resilient task
coordination, enabling the robot team to maintain task progress
despite incomplete and delayed information. Simulations on 25
benchmark instances and a physical experiment demonstrate
the effectiveness of the proposed framework in sustaining task
execution under limited communication.
Index Terms—Linear Temporal Logic, Multi-robot Systems,
Task Allocation, Multi-robot Coordination.

I. INTRODUCTION
Multi-robot systems (MRS) are increasingly important in
applications such as patrol, surveillance, and logistics [1], [2],
because robot teams can provide higher efficiency, robustness,
and flexibility than a single robot can. Multi-robot task allocation (MRTA) is therefore a fundamental problem in MRS.
Existing task-allocation methods are generally divided into
centralized and distributed approaches. Centralized methods
compute assignments through a coordinator with global information [3], [4], but they often suffer from high computational
cost and single-point-of-failure issues, which limit scalability
and robustness in dynamic environments. By contrast, distributed methods allow robots to make decisions based on local
information and limited communication, including auctionbased algorithms [5], [6], contract-net protocols [7], and rulebased methods [8]. These methods are especially attractive in
communication-constrained scenarios such as security patrol
and post-disaster search and rescue [9].
However, many practical multi-robot missions are not only
communication-constrained, but also subject to temporal requirements such as ordering, persistence, and synchronization
[10], which makes MRTA more challenging. To specify such
requirements formally and precisely, recent studies have increasingly adopted formal languages [11], among which linear
temporal logic (LTL) is one of the most widely used [12].
LTL provides a rigorous and unambiguous framework for task
specification. For example, Li et al. [13] studied heterogeneous
MRTA under global LTL specifications with variable robot capabilities and inter-task constraints. Yu et al. [14] investigated

fully distributed LTL-based multi-robot motion coordination
using only local information, and employed online conflict
detection and local replanning to preserve safety and specification feasibility. Despite this progress, sustaining global
LTL missions in a distributed manner remains challenging
under limited communication, because robots cannot maintain
complete and timely team-state information during execution.
Motivated by this challenge, this work develops a distributed
task allocation framework with resilient task coordination
under temporal logic and communication constraints.
Under LTL constraints, existing task allocation and planning
methods can generally be classified into top-down and bottomup approaches. In top-down methods, a global LTL formula is
used to specify the overall mission, and a centralized planner
decomposes it into robot-level plans. A common strategy is
to construct a product automaton from the nondeterministic
Büchi automaton (NBA) derived from the global LTL formula
and the discrete transition systems of the robots, and then
solve the resulting graph-search problem [15], [16]. However,
this approach suffers from severe state explosion in multirobot settings and is difficult to adapt to dynamic execution
scenarios involving robot addition or removal. Sampling-based
methods [17], [18] improve upon the above methods by
constructing generation trees from NBA samples rather than
from the full product automaton. However, such methods
typically require the candidate robots for each subtask to be
specified in advance. Luo et al. [19] formulated temporallogic task allocation as a mixed-integer programming problem;
however, it is difficult to adapt online to practical execution
contingencies such as robot failures. Chen et al. [20] proposed an incremental decision-tree-based method that supports
online adaptation, but it relies on global information. Recognizing the parallel and concurrent nature of MRS, some
studies decompose a global specification into multiple subtasks
using automaton transition relations to increase parallelism.
Schillinger et al. [21], [22] decomposed the global task into
a set of parallel subtasks. However, this method does not
explicitly handle collaborative subtasks. Based on these works,
Liu et al. [23], [24] further improved efficiency by representing subtask temporal relations with posets. Recent studies
also combine large language models with optimization-based
schedulers, such as DEXTER-LLM [25]. Overall, although
advanced top-down methods are effective at deriving task
assignments from global temporal-logic specifications, can
handle collaborative subtasks, and in some cases allow online
adaptation, they still largely rely on centralized coordination
and reliable global information. As a result, they are difficult
to deploy with limited communication.
Bottom-up approaches, in contrast, usually assume that each
robot is assigned a local temporal-logic task, and distributed
coordination is then achieved through neighbor communica-

2

tion and online replanning. Filippidis et al. [26] proposed a distributed planning framework under temporal logic constraints
that enables robots to exchange information and verify conflicts online. Each robot can communicate only with neighbors
within its communication range, and a dedicated “follower”
robot is used to establish and maintain communication links
when interaction is required. In [27], [28], each robot updates
its knowledge based on local observations and propagates it
through neighbor communication; with newly received knowledge, robots confirm and adjust their action paths online. However, such neighbor-only communication cannot guarantee that
all robots required for a collaborative subtask can mutually
communicate when needed. For scenarios with collaborative
tasks, Tian et al. [29] proposed a distributed cooperative
computation framework that decomposes task constraints via
an interaction-edge product automaton, enabling robots to
synthesize local trajectories in parallel using only neighborhood interaction information. Most existing work focuses on
avoiding physical collisions while overlooking task conflicts.
Chen et al. [30] addressed task-level conflict resolution under
communication constraints by predicting the goals of robots
beyond communication range.
Compared with top-down approaches, these methods are
generally more robust to communication constraints. However,
many of them rely on a key assumption that local tasks
are known or preassigned in advance. This assumption limits
their applicability in scenarios where only a global mission
is available. Moreover, when communication is restricted to
local neighborhoods, information exchange alone may be insufficient to reliably support collaborative subtasks that require
multiple robots. Therefore, existing methods still leave an
important gap for scenarios in which robots must derive
executable local behavior from a global specification and
sustain task execution under limited communication range.
This gap becomes particularly significant in practical applications such as industrial inspection, photovoltaic power
station patrol, and large-scale facility monitoring, where communication is restricted and mission requirements are more
naturally specified as a global LTL formula rather than as
preassigned local tasks. In such settings, the main challenge
lies not only in obtaining a feasible initial task assignment,
but also in sustaining task coordination during execution under
limited communication range. Because robots cannot maintain
a complete and timely view of the team state, a subtask that is
feasible at the planning stage may later become unrealizable
because of sudden robot failures or other unexpected events.
In particular, two major challenges arise during mission execution. First, a robot may be unable to verify whether the
temporal prerequisites of one of its pending subtasks have been
satisfied, which leads to task blocking. Second, a collaborative
subtask may fail to start because the required robots do not
arrive in time. Existing recovery strategies, including role
reassignment, task reprioritization, and subtask reissuing [31]–
[33], can alleviate these issues to some extent, but they often
operate from fragmented local views. Consequently, repeated
failures due to the lack of global information or delayed
information propagation may substantially increase the overall
mission completion time.

Motivated by these challenges, this work develops a distributed task allocation framework with resilient task coordination under temporal logic and communication constraints.
In particular, the proposed method explicitly addresses two
issues that are not systematically handled in prior work: task
blocking caused by unconfirmed temporal prerequisites and
collaborative-subtask failures caused by incomplete team-state
information. To address task blocking caused by unconfirmed
prerequisite completion, a patrol mechanism is introduced to
actively gather and relay task-state information. To improve
the resilience of task coordination, especially for collaborative
subtasks, a resilient task coordination mechanism is developed
by integrating leader-based coordination, timeout-triggered recruitment, and free-market-based reassignment. Here, the free
market is a designated rendezvous region where robots synchronize state information and recover failed subtasks based
on a more complete view of the team state. By explicitly incorporating these coordination and recovery mechanisms into
execution, the proposed framework improves the robustness of
global mission execution under limited communication. The
main contributions of this work are summarized as follows:
•

•

•

•

We propose a distributed task allocation framework that
integrates task allocation and resilient task coordination
under temporal logic and communication constraints,
enabling robot teams to sustain task execution from a
global specification using local information.
To address task blocking under limited communication,
a patrol mechanism is proposed to actively gather information when prerequisite subtasks are overdue but
completion is unconfirmed.
To strengthen resilient task coordination for collaborative
subtasks, two complementary mechanisms are designed: a
leader-based coordination with timeout-triggered recruitment to reduce subtask failures, and a free-market-based
reassignment to mitigate significant delays when failures
occur.
Theoretical analysis establishes completeness and taskcompletion guarantees under the assumptions of this
paper.

Notations: Let N and [N ] denote the set of natural numbers
and the shorthand notation for {1, . . . , N }, respectively. Given
a set A, let |A| and 2A denote the cardinality and power set
of A, respectively.
II. PRELIMINARIES
LTL formulas are constructed from atomic propositions
AP using Boolean operators and temporal operators. Atomic
propositions represent basic Boolean variables whose values
are evaluated as either true or false. Detailed content can be
found in [12]. LTL formulas can be translated into NBA.
Definition 1 (Nondeterministic Büchi Automaton). A nondeterministic Büchi automaton (NBA) is a tuple B =
(S, S0 , Σ, δ, F ), where S is a finite set of states, S0 ⊆ S
is the set of initial states, Σ = 2AP is the input alphabet,
δ : S × Σ → 2S is the transition function, and F ⊆ S is the
set of accepting states.

3

Given an infinite word ω = σ0 σ1 σ2 . . . with σi ∈ Σ, a
run ρ = s0 s1 s2 . . . of the NBA B over ω is an infinite state
sequence such that s0 ∈ S0 and si+1 ∈ δ(si , σi ) for all i ≥ 0.
The run ρ is accepting if it visits states in F infinitely often.
Accepting runs can be represented in a prefix–suffix structure,
where the prefix wpre runs from an initial state to an accepting
state, and the suffix wsuf forms a cycle containing at least one
accepting state.
This paper focuses on a special class of LTL formulas called
syntactically co-safe LTL (sc-LTL) [34]. sc-LTL formulas
restrict temporal operators to ⃝ (next), ∪ (until), and ♢
(eventually), and must be written in a positive normal form.
III. PROBLEM STATEMENT
A. Environment and Multi-Robot System
In a discrete workspace W ⊆ R2 , let L = {l1 , l2 , . . . , lM }
be M pairwise disjoint target regions, i.e., li ∩ lj = ∅ for all
i ̸= j, where i, j ∈ [M ]. Let U denote uninteresting regions,
such as forbidden areas, and assume li ∩ U = ∅.
Given workspace W, we consider a heterogeneous robot
team R = {r1 , r2 , . . . , rN }, where N is the number of robots.
The robots have nt different types, where each robot belongs
to exactly one type. Let T = [nt ] denote the type index set.
For each i ∈ T , S
let Ri ⊆ R denote the set of robots of
nt
type i. Then R = i=1
Ri and Ri ∩ Rj = ∅, ∀i ̸= j. For any
robot rm , its velocity and position are denoted by vm and xm ,
respectively. Consider a time sequence {τn = n∆t}n∈N with
sampling interval ∆t. For convenience, for any quantity y,
y(τn ) denotes the value or state of y at time τn . In other words,
the argument τn indicates the realization of the corresponding
variable evaluated at τn .
Assuming communication range D ∈ R+ , robots can
only communicate with neighbors within this range. The
neighbor set of robot rm at time τn is defined as:
Nm (τn ) = {rn | ∥xm (τn ) − xn (τn )∥ ≤ D}. The communication frequency is denoted by fcom in Hz.
B. Problem Description
To better describe the problem, we first introduce the atomic
propositions. Let am
i,w represent the action required for task
completion, indicating that w robots of type i must execute this
action at region lm ∈ L, where i ∈ T , w ∈ N, and w ≤ |Ri |.
The following atomic propositions are then introduced: i) the
atomic proposition pm is true when any robot is located in
m
region lm , and false otherwise; ii) the atomic proposition li,w
m
is true iff action ai,w has been completed.
To facilitate task allocation under temporal logic constraints,
a task model is introduced to explicitly capture the relationships among subtasks, actions, and workspace information.
This abstraction provides a unified representation for subsequent task allocation.
Definition 2 (Task Model). The task model is defined as
T M = (Q, A, W, LA, LC, LW), where Q := {qi } ∪ {εq }
is the set of subtasks and εq is the null subtask; A := {am
i,w |
m ∈ [M ], i ∈ [nt ], w ∈ [|Ri |]} ∪ {εa }, where εa is the
empty action. For notational simplicity, an action in A can

be written as aj , where j is the index. W is the workspace;
LA : Q → 2A associates each subtask with a set of actions,
i.e., LA(qi ) ⊆ A; LC : A → R≥0 indicates the cost required
to execute an action; and LW : A → W specifies the target
region for an action (excluding εa ).
Given workspace W and NBA B corresponding to the
LTL-specified global task φ, the plan for robot rk is defined
as a subtask-action-time sequence Πk = Π0,k Π1,k · · · Πhk ,k ,
where each entry Πi,k is a subtask-action-time tuple associated
with robot rk , and hk denotes the length of the plan. More
specifically, Πi,k = (qi , ai , ti,k ), where qi ∈ Q, ai ∈ LA(qi ),
and ti,k denote the assigned subtask, the corresponding action,
and the action start time of the i-th entry in the plan of robot
rk , respectively. In particular, the action of Π0,k is εa and the
subtask is εq . To simplify notation, we use Πi,k (q) to denote
the subtask component of Πi,k and Πi,k (a) to denote its action
component in the remainder of this paper.
Example 1. Consider a heterogeneous robot group R =
{r1 , r2 , r3 , r4 }, including two type-1 (e.g., inspection) and
two type-2 (e.g., maintenance and manipulation) robots, performing distributed tasks in a large-scale industrial park. The
target regions are L = {l1 , l2 , l3 , l4 }. The task requires two
type-1 robots to go to l1 for a joint inspection of an abnormal
facility status, and one type-2 robot must travel to a local
service station at l2 to perform an on-site handling operation.
In addition, one type-1 and one type-2 robot must go to l3
for a coordinated repair task. During this coordinated-repair
period, no robot may pass through region l4 , which represents
a hazardous area. Let p4 denote the atomic proposition that
any robot enters region l4 . The task can be described by the
following sc-LTL formula.
1
2
3
3
φ = ♢l1,2
∧ ♢l2,1
∧ ♢(l1,1
∧ l2,1
∧ ¬p4 )

(1)

Based on the above, the problem studied in this work is
described as follows.
Problem 1. Given a global sc-LTL task specification φ,
workspace W, and a team of heterogeneous robots R, the goal
is to develop a distributed task allocation and coordination
strategy under limited communication range. Specifically, the
strategy should generate a plan Πk for each robot rk ∈ R and
sustain task coordination during execution despite incomplete
and delayed information. Let Π := {Πk }rk ∈R denote the
collection of local plans. The objective is that Π satisfies task
φ. The following assumptions are made.
i) a robot can determine whether the task at a target region
has been completed upon arrival;
ii) any robot within the broadcast range of a sender (another
robot) will instantly receive its messages;
iii) the robot team contains sufficient robots.
IV. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW
As shown in Fig. 1, the proposed framework consists of
two parts: task preprocessing and distributed allocation with
resilient task coordination.
In the task preprocessing part, the global sc-LTL specification is first translated into an NBA. The automaton is then

4

Fig. 1. Framework of the method. The framework consists of two stages: task preprocessing and distributed task allocation with resilient task coordination.

pruned by removing infeasible and decomposable transitions,
and the resulting pruned automaton is further decomposed into
executable subtasks together with their temporal dependencies.
In the second part, robots first generate initial plans through
the consensus-based timetable algorithm (CBTA), which allocates optional subtasks. Since communication is limited,
each robot maintains and broadcasts not only its own task
state but also the peer information it has received. Based on
the locally information, robots maintain their local views of
subtask progress and update their ordinary local plans through
an event-triggered replanning mechanism.This mechanism is
used only for online adaption outside the free market.
For collaborative subtasks, the first robot arriving at the
target region acts as a temporary leader to coordinate team formation and synchronize task execution. If all required robots
arrive within the collaboration waiting time, the leader broadcasts a start signal and the collaborative subtask proceeds as
planned. Otherwise, timeout-triggered recruitment is activated.
The leader first attempts local recovery by recruiting available
and type-compatible robots that are reachable through direct
or multi-hop communication. If local recovery is insufficient, a
recruiter may be dispatched to the free market. If the required
team still cannot be formed within the prescribed coordination
horizon, the leader declares the collaborative subtask failed,
and the failed subtask will be handled through free-marketbased reassignment.
In addition, when a robot cannot confirm that the temporal
prerequisites of its pending subtasks have been satisfied, a
patrol mechanism is activated to actively gather the missing
task-state information.
Overall, the framework starts from a global temporal logic
task, derives distributed executable subtasks, generates initial
plans, and then sustains task progress online through eventtriggered replanning, collaborative coordination, and patrolbased information gathering under limited communication.
V. TASK PREPROCESSING
To address Problem 1, we preprocess φ. As shown in Fig. 1,
preprocessing has two phases: i) NBA pruning; and ii) task
decomposition on the pruned NBA to obtain the subtask set
Q and the temporal relations among subtasks.

A. Pruning of NBA
The LTL formula is first converted into an NBA B and
then pruned to remove redundancies, yielding a simplified
automaton B − . Specifically, there are two types of pruning:
• Removal of infeasible transitions: removing transitions
that cannot be realized, e.g., when the required number
or types of robots exceed those available.
• Elimination of decomposable transitions: Decomposable
transitions are removed to improve task decomposition
effectiveness [35].
A decomposable transition is defined as follows.
Definition 3 (Decomposable Transition). In NBA B, a transition from state si to sj is called decomposable if there
exists another state sk such that, for any σik , σkj ⊆ Σ
satisfying sk ∈ δ(si , σik ) and sj ∈ δ(sk , σkj ), it holds that
sj ∈ δ(si , σik ∪ σkj ).
Lemma 1: For any feasible word w accepted by B, there
exists a corresponding word w′ accepted by B − .
Proof : Consider an accepted word w = · · · σn · · · with
accepting run ρ = · · · si sj · · · in B, where sj ∈ δ(si , σn ).
The first pruning step removes only infeasible transitions, so
every feasible accepted word is preserved. For the second
pruning step, consider two cases. For Case 1, if ρ contains
no decomposable transitions, then all transitions of ρ remain
in B − ; hence ρ is also an accepting run in B − and we can
set w′ = w. For Case 2, if a transition from si to sj is
removed as decomposable, there exists a state sk and labels
σik , σkj such that sk ∈ δ(si , σik ), sj ∈ δ(sk , σkj ), and
σik ∪ σkj = σn . Therefore, the transition si → sj can be
replaced by two transitions, si → sk and sk → sj . If both
transitions si → sk and sk → sj are non-decomposable,
this reduces to Case 1. Otherwise, the same decomposition
argument is applied recursively. Because a transition cannot
be decomposed indefinitely into realizable finite expressions,
this recursive process terminates. The final constructed run has
no decomposable transitions, so it reduces to Case 1 and is
accepted by B − .
B. Task Decomposition
Following [36], B − is decomposed into subtasks and a
relaxed partial order is extracted. A depth-first search on

5

B − generates an accepting path and its corresponding task
sequence. Starting from this ordered sequence, subtasks are
iteratively swapped and each new path is checked for acceptability. This process relaxes unnecessary temporal constraints
and yields a logically consistent subtask set that supports
parallel execution, together with a relaxed partial order.
Example 2. For the task in Example 1, the subtask
set corresponding to φ is given by Ωφ = {q1 , q2 , q3 },
1
2
where q1 = {1, {l1,2
}, {}}, q2 = {2, {l2,1
}, {}}, q3 =
3
3
{3, {l1,1 , l2,1 }, {p4 }}. Each subtask is represented by three
entries: the first entry (e.g., 1, 2, 3) is the subtask index, the
second set contains the actions to be executed, and the third
set contains atomic propositions required on the self-loop.
VI. DISTRIBUTED ALLOCATION WITH RESILIENT
TASK COORDINATION
This section describes how feasible plans are generated under limited communication, and how these plans are executed
under limited communication range.
A. Consensus-based Timetable Algorithm
To prevent robots from violating temporal logic constraints,
the optional subtask set Ok (τn ) for robot rk is defined.
Definition 4 (Optional Subtask Set). At time τn , the optional
subtask set Ok (τn ) for robot rk includes all subtasks qi ∈ Q
that satisfy: i) the numbers or types of robots committed to qi
have not yet met the task requirements; ii) rk is unassigned
and capable of qi ; iii) temporal constraints are satisfied.
Note that robots committed to qi include those traveling to,
waiting in, or executing the subtask at the target region. To
reduce failures in collaborative subtasks, a robot commits only
when its currently available information indicates that enough
planned participants, in both number and required types, are
already allocated to that subtask.
Allocation within Ok (τn ) is performed using CBTA [5],
which can efficiently allocate tasks by iterative timetable
construction and consensus-reaching among robots. The cost
of the current plan for robot rk , i.e., the plan completion time,
is defined below.
Cost(Πk (τn )) = thk (τn ),k − t0,k + LC(Πhk (τn ),k (a))

(2)

Here, hk (τn ) is the current plan length of robot rk at time
τn ; thk (τn ),k is the start time of the last action in Πk (τn );
t0,k is the start time of the plan; and LC(Πhk (τn ),k (a)) is
the execution cost of the last action. For each qi ∈ Ok (τn )
and action aj ∈ LA(qi ), candidate insertion positions after
Π0,k (τn ) are evaluated by minimizing marginal cost, where
Π0,k (τn ) is the initial tuple of the plan for robot rk at time
τn . The time component ti,k ∈ Πi,k (τn ) is defined below.

d

t0,k + tleft,k + i,k ,
if i = 1
vk
(3)
ti,k =
d

ti−1,k + LC(Πi−1,k (a)) + i−1,i , otherwise
vk
where tleft,k is the remaining time for the current subtask; di,k is the distance from xk (τn ) to the target region

of Πi−1,k (q); and di−1,i is the distance between the target regions of Πi−1,k (q) and Πi,k (q). To enforce robotquantity
P requirements, Eq. (2) is augmented with a penalty
M i∈[hk (τn )] nreq (Πi,k (q)), where nreq (Πi,k (q)) is the number of robots required to accomplish subtask Πi,k (q) and M
is a large constant.
Assume that Pk (τn ) is the set of plans received by robot rk
at time τn . Task-allocation conflicts are then resolved based
on these shared plans as follows. For each candidate subtask
qi ∈ Ok (τn ) and each action aj ∈ LA(qi ), robot rk first
counts the number of robots currently assigned to execute
aj according to Pk (τn ). Let nkreq (aj ) denote the number of
robots that rk estimates to be required for aj . If the number of
assigned robots exceeds nkreq (aj ), an over-assignment conflict
is detected. In this case, only the first nkreq (aj ) robots with the
earliest expected action start times are retained. Otherwise, no
task-allocation conflict is identified, and all currently assigned
robots are retained. See [5] for algorithmic details.
Example 3. For robot r1 in Example 1, suppose its optional
subtask set is O1 (τn ) = {q1 , q3 } and the initial plan is
Π1 (τn ) = (εq , εa , τn ), where εq and εa denote empty subtask
and action, respectively. The actions of robot r1 for q1 and q3
are a11,2 and a31,1 with LC(a11,2 ) = 2.6 and LC(a31,1 ) = 2.5,
where 2.6 and 2.5 denote the time required to complete
the corresponding actions. First, a11,2 is inserted; at this
stage it can only be placed after Π0,1 , yielding Π1 (τn ) =
(εq , εa , τn )(q1 , a11,2 , τn + 5.2). After that, a31,1 is inserted; at
this stage, it can be inserted either between Π0,1 and Π1,1
or after Π1,1 , and the corresponding marginal costs are 16.7
and 7.9, respectively. Then, Π1 (τn ) is further updated to
(εq , εa , τn )(q1 , a11,2 , τn + 5.2)(q3 , a31,1 , τn + 13.2).
B. Event-Triggered Replanning Mechanism
The replanning mechanism described in this subsection is
the CBTA-based update of local plans during online execution.
It is used to revise ordinary local task assignments when
newly received information changes a robot’s view of the
current task state. This mechanism is distinct from the freemarket reassignment process for failed collaborative subtasks.
In particular, CBTA replanning is used for online adaptation
outside the free market, whereas once a robot enters the free
market, failed collaborative subtasks are handled by the free
market-based reassignment mechanism.
During execution, each robot rk maintains and periodically broadcasts a robot-state information set Sk (τn ), which
records the information collected by rk at time τn . In
particular, each robot broadcasts not only its own state
but also the peer states it has received, thereby enabling
multi-hop information propagation. The robot-state information set is defined as Sk (τn ) = {Sm|k (τn ) | rm ∈
R, m ̸= k}. Each element Sm|k (τn ) is defined as follows:
m
Sm|k (τn ) = {τm , qm , am , tm
a , ts , xm (τn ), Πm (τn )}. Here,
Sm|k (τn ) records the latest status of robot rm as received by
rk at time τn . Specifically, τm is the generation timestamp of
the latest status message from rm ; qm is the subtask currently
committed by rm ; am ∈ LA(qm ) is the concrete action role
undertaken by rm for qm ; tm
a is the estimated remaining travel

6

time from the current estimated position of rm to the target
region of qm ; and tm
s is the estimated task start time. Let
Am denote the set of estimated arrival times of other robots
assigned to the same task region. Then tm
s is defined as the
difference between the estimated arrival time of rm itself and
the nreq (am )-th smallest element in Am , and is always nonnegative. In addition, xm (τn ) denotes the position of rm at
time τn , and Πm (τn ) denotes the plan of rm at time τn .
To reduce unnecessary computation under limited communication, CBTA replanning is triggered only by events
that update a robot’s local task view or indicate changes in
task-execution status. Specifically, these events include the
reception of task-state information with newer timestamps,
completion or failure of the robot’s current subtask, taskallocation conflicts, and failure inference for non-collaborative
subtasks, as illustrated in Fig.2.
1) Conflict-Triggered Replanning: During execution, limited communication may lead to task conflicts. To address this,
a conflict-triggered replanning mechanism is introduced.
Each robot classifies subtasks into three categories at time
τn : i) unassigned subtasks, whose currently committed robots
are still insufficient in number or type, so additional robots
may still join; ii) completed subtasks, whose required actions have already been executed and therefore no longer
require allocation; and iii) confirmed subtasks, whose current
commitments have been verified to satisfy all participation
requirements and are thus ready for execution or are already
k
k
(τn ) and Talready
(τn ) denote the
under execution. Let Tnot
unassigned-subtask set and completed-subtask set maintained
by robot rk , respectively. During communication, robots exchange these sets and merge newly received updates. In this
way, the optional subtask set is maintained online and remains
consistent with the latest distributed task state.
Based on the robot-state information set Sk (τn ), the
k
(τn ), and the completed-subtask
unassigned-subtask set Tnot
k
set Talready (τn ), robot rk periodically checks for conflicts
while executing aj ∈ LA(qi ). Two types of conflicts are
considered. i) Conflict caused by task completion: At each
k
check, rk verifies whether qi has entered Talready
(τn ). If
so, the current commitment is immediately invalidated, since
further motion for qi is redundant and may delay other pending
tasks. Robot rk then stops and replans. ii) Over-assignment:
If the number of robots committed to aj exceeds the required
cardinality nreq (aj ), robot rk ranks all committed robots by
their remaining travel time to the target region, with smaller
tm
a taking higher priority, and keeps only the first nreq (aj )
robots as valid executors of aj . If multiple robots have the
same tm
a , ties are broken by robot ID in ascending order. If
rk is not selected after this filtering step, it immediately stops
the current commitment and replans.
2) Replanning for Non-Collaborative Subtasks: This replanning is applied only to non-collaborative subtasks, because
collaborative subtasks are handled by a dedicated resilient
task coordination mechanism. For a non-collaborative subtask,
the assigned robot may become unavailable during execution
because of faults or other unexpected events and may therefore
fail to complete the subtask. Under limited communication,
other robots cannot directly distinguish such execution failure

Fig. 2. Schematic illustration of the event-triggered replanning mechanism

from delayed or incomplete information propagation. Therefore, each robot applies a timeout-based rule to assess whether
the corresponding task-state record remains valid and, if
necessary, triggers CBTA-based replanning.
Even for non-collaborative subtasks, delayed and incomplete information propagation may cause the same subtask to
be assigned to multiple robots. Let Hk (qm ) = {h | Sh|k (τn ) ∈
Sk (τn ), qh = qm } denote the robot-index set induced by the
state records in Sk (τn ), where qh is the subtask component in
Sh|k (τn ). For each h ∈ Hk (qm ), robot rk computes a timeout
k,h
candidate Tlate
by Eq. (5) and uses the largest one as the expiry
threshold for qm . The expiry threshold is defined below.
k
Tlate
(qm ) =

max
h∈Hk (qm )

k,h
Tlate
.

The timeout candidate is defined below.





1
dk,h
k,h
max Tenc ,
Tlate
= αlate 1 +
D
fcom
h
+ ts + max LC(ai )

(4)

(5)

ai ∈LA(qm )

The average encounter time is defined below.
Tenc =

1
4Dva ρr

(6)

where αlate is a tuning parameter. In this paper, αlate is set
to 2.5 based on experimental results. The value is chosen to
be greater than 1 so that the practical information expiration
time remains above its theoretical estimate. dk,h denotes the
distance between robot rk ’s current position and robot rh ’s
estimated position. The position of rh is estimated based on
its last known position xh at the most recent communication
time, together with its task plan. The estimation is carried
out as follows: the current time is compared with the subtask
start time in the plan to determine which task the robot is
executing. If the current time exceeds the planned completion
time of that task, the robot is considered to be in the free
market. Otherwise, the robot is assumed to move at a constant
speed along a straight line between task points, and its current
position is estimated accordingly. Tenc denotes the average
encounter time [37], where va is the average speed of robots
and ρr is the robot density. Specifically, if current time τnow
k
satisfies τnow −τm > Tlate
(qm ), robot rk treats the state record
of robot rm for subtask qm as outdated. If robot rk is capable
of executing the corresponding action, qm is non-collaborative,
and qm ̸= qk , then robot rk triggers CBTA-based replanning,
after which the updated local plan may take over qm . Here,

7

k
τm is the timestamp of the stored state record, and Tlate
(qm )
is the expiry threshold adopted by robot rk for subtask qm .
Note that the event-triggered CBTA replanning mechanism
is applied only outside the free market. Once a robot enters
the free market, failed collaborative subtasks are no longer
handled through CBTA-based local plan updates, but through
the dedicated free-market reassignment mechanism.

C. Collaborative Subtask Coordination
1) Free Market: The free market is a designated rendezvous
region used for global information synchronization and failedsubtask reassignment. A robot enters this region in one of
three situations: it has no executable pending subtask unless
all subtasks have already been completed, its assigned optional subtask cannot proceed because of failure or missing
collaborators, or it is explicitly dispatched by a leader as an
emergency recruiter. Robots broadcast the ID set of robots
currently in the free market, denoted by Rf , along with the
corresponding timestamp. Upon receiving this information,
each robot updates its locally maintained free-market ID set
Rf using the newest timestamp.
The free-market location is computed by entropy-based
weighting of subtask information. For each subtask qi ∈ Q,
two indicators are considered: the required robot count Ni and
the number of successor subtasks Nsuc,i . Their normalized
forms are denoted by νi,1 and νi,2 , respectively. They are
defined below.
Nsuc,i
Ni
,
νi,2 = P
.
(7)
νi,1 = P
qj ∈Q Nj
qj ∈Q Nsuc,j
The entropy weight of indicator k is denoted by wk , where
k = 1 corresponds to the normalized required robot count and
k = 2 corresponds to the normalized successor count. The
normalized entropy ek is defined below.
1 X
ek = −
νi,k ln νi,k ,
k ∈ {1, 2},
(8)
ln |Q|
qi ∈Q

The entropy weight wk is defined below.
wk = P2

1 − ek

m=1 (1

− em )

,

k ∈ {1, 2}.

(9)

Here, |Q| isPthe number of subtasks, and the denominator
2
ensures that k=1 wk = 1. The entropy-weighted importance
of subtask qi is defined below.
si = w1 νi,1 + w2 νi,2 ,
Its normalized score is defined below.
si
s̄i = P
.
qj ∈Q sj

(10)

(11)

Here, si is the unnormalized importance score of subtask qi ,
and
P s̄i is its normalized score. This normalization ensures that
qi ∈Q s̄i = 1, so s̄i can be directly used as a weight in center
computation. Let xi denote the geometric center of the region
associated with subtask qi . The center of the free market is
defined below.
X
xfree =
s̄i xi .
(12)
qi ∈Q

This expression is a weighted average of subtask-region centers. A larger value of s̄i means that subtask qi has a stronger
influence on xfree . If xfree lies in a forbidden region or outside
the workspace, the final free-market location is set to the
nearest feasible point. In this work, a robot is regarded as
having arrived at the free market when it reaches a feasible
point that is as close as possible to the free-market center
and lies within the communication range of at least one robot
already in the free market, if such a robot exists.
2) Leader-based Collaborative Subtask Coordination: For
collaborative subtasks, robots adopt a leader-based coordination strategy. One robot serves as a temporary leader to
collect arrival information, synchronize decisions, and issue
recruitment actions. Compared with fully leaderless coordination, this design reduces negotiation overhead and decision
inconsistency, thereby improving coordination efficiency and
execution robustness.
Algorithm 1 Timeout-Triggered Recruitment
1: Input: collaborative subtask qc , arrived-robot set Rarr ,
leader state-record set Sl (τn ), free-market location xfree ,
free-market robot set Rf , reachable robot set Rb
2: if |Rarr | < nreq (qc ) then
3:
Construct Rlfit from robots in Rb that are available and
type-compatible with the missing roles of qc .
4:
if |Rarr ∪ Rlfit | ≥ nreq (qc ) then
5:
Recruit the required robots from Rlfit .
6:
Update Twait via Eq. (13).
7:
if waiting time t < Twait then
8:
Leader rl broadcasts a start signal for subtask qc .
9:
else
10:
Leader rl announces failure of subtask qc .
11:
end if
12:
end if
13:
Construct Rffit from robots in Rf that are typecompatible with the remaining missing roles of qc .
14:
if |Rarr ∪ Rlfit ∪ Rffit | < nreq (qc ) then
15:
Leader rl announces failure of subtask qc .
16:
end if
17:
Extract {xp (τn ) | rp ∈ Rarr } from Sl (τn ).
18:
rp ← arg minrp ∈Rarr d(xp (τn ), xfree )
19:
Recruit robots in Rlfit and dispatch rp to the free market.
p
20:
Compute timeout Tleave
via Eq. (15).
21:
if recruitment succeeds then
22:
Leader rl broadcasts a start signal for subtask qc .
p
23:
else if waiting time t ≥ Tleave
or recruitment fails then
24:
Leader rl announces failure of subtask qc .
25:
end if
26: end if
Upon arriving at a subtask region, robot rk broadcasts
an arrival signal ek = {tke , qk , ak }, where tke is the arrival
timestamp at the task region, and qk and ak denote the current
subtask and the action performed by rk , respectively. The
robot that arrives first at the task region is selected as leader
rl to prevent conflicts caused by asynchronous arrivals. Let
qc denote the collaborative subtask currently coordinated by
leader rl . If the number of robots that arrive within the collab-

8

oration waiting time Twait satisfies the requirement of qc , the
leader broadcasts a start signal and the robots begin executing
the collaborative subtask. Otherwise, once the waiting time
exceeds Twait , timeout-triggered recruitment is initiated.
The collaboration waiting time Twait is dynamically determined using leader rl ’s robot-state information set Sl (τn ). It
is defined below in terms of the earliest arrival time Tearly and
the latest arrival time Tlate .


nreq (qc )
(Tlate − Tearly )
(13)
Twait = 1 + βw max
nreq
where βw is an adjustment coefficient. In this paper, βw is
set to 1.25 based on experiments. Here, nreq (qc ) denotes
the number of robots required for subtask qc , and nmax
req =
maxqj ∈Q nreq (qj ) denotes the maximum robot requirement
across all subtasks. This design uses the arrival-time spread
(Tlate − Tearly ) as the baseline waiting window and scales it
by nreq (qc )/nmax
req , so subtasks requiring more robots are given
a proportionally longer waiting time to improve collaboration
success while avoiding excessive delay for smaller teams. The
rationale is that larger teams are harder to synchronize under
limited communication: more robots imply greater arrival-time
variability, so the probability that all required robots arrive
within a short window is lower.
When leader rl observes that the collaboration waiting
time has reached Twait and the number of arrived robots is
still below the required cardinality for qc , timeout-triggered
recruitment is activated. The procedure is summarized in
Algorithm 1. The leader first performs local recovery. It
scans the reachable robot set Rb , which consists of robots
currently discoverable by rl through direct links or multi-hop
relays, and extracts robots that are both available and typecompatible with the missing roles of qc . Here, available robots
are those that are not executing other subtasks, are not already
committed to recruitment, and have not been recruited by other
robots. This locally feasible set is denoted by Rlfit . If the
union of Rarr and Rlfit is sufficient to satisfy the requirement
of qc , the leader recruits the required robots from Rlfit . The
recruitment message includes the subtask ID of qc , missing
number and type requirements, and publication timestamp τn .
During recruitment, leader rl broadcasts recruitment messages and follows a first-come-first-served strategy among
received bids. Bidder rb ∈ Rlfit applies according to message
publication time. Upon receiving a bid from robot rb ∈ Rlfit ,
leader rl sends a lock request Illock = {qc , IDb } to rb , where
IDb is the ID of rb . The unlocked bidder rb replies with
Ibagree = {qc , IDb } and becomes locked. After successful
recruitment, rl broadcasts Ilfinish = {qc }, and the locked robots
proceed to qc . Leader rl continues broadcasting recruitment
messages until the required robots are obtained or the recruitment exceeds Tbid . The collaboration waiting time Twait is
then updated according to the predicted arrival times of the
recruited robots. If the updated waiting bound is still exceeded
before team formation is completed, the leader declares the
subtask failed. The bidding timeout Tbid is defined below.
Tbid = |R|

1
Nround + tcomp ,
fcom

(14)

where |R| is the total number of robots, Nround is the number
of recruiter–bidder message rounds required by the recruitment
process, and tcomp is the computation time. In this paper,
Nround is set to 5 and tcomp is set to 2.0 s.
If local recovery is insufficient, the leader expands the
search to the free market. It first constructs a backup candidate
set Rffit from robots in Rf whose capabilities match the
remaining missing roles of qc . If the union of the arrived
robots Rarr , the locally reachable candidates Rlfit , and the
free-market candidates Rffit is still insufficient, the subtask is
immediately treated as failed. Otherwise, the leader selects a
recruiter rp from the arrived robots according to
rp = arg min d(xr (τn ), xfree ),
r∈Rarr

where xr (τn ) is the position of robot r recorded in Sl (τn ).
The recruitment procedure executed by recruiter rp in the free
market is the same as that used by leader rl . Leader rl declares
p
subtask failure if recruitment is unsuccessful within Tleave
. The
leave timeout is defined below.



2dleave
dleave
p
+ Tbid
(15)
Tleave = 1 + ζ
dmax
vp
where dmax is the maximum inter-target-region distance, and
ζ is an adjustment coefficient. Based on experiments, ζ is set
to 0.75 in this paper. dleave denotes the distance from recruiter
p
rp to the free market. By adapting Tleave
to travel distance, the
leader avoids declaring failure too early for distant recruiters
and avoids excessive waiting for nearby recruiters. The first
term in Eq. (15) estimates the round-trip travel time between
the subtask region and the free market, while Tbid reserves
time for recruitment in the market.
p
If recruitment is still unsuccessful within Tleave
, subtask qc
is declared failed, and the leader notifies all robots currently
executing qc . Failed subtasks are added to each robot’s failedsubtask set and are temporarily skipped until robots enter the
free market.
3) Failure Handling for Collaborative Subtasks: Failed
collaborative subtasks are handled through free-market-based
reassignment. Notably, the communication network among
robots in the free market is assumed to be connected. Once
a robot enters the free market, failed subtasks are reallocated
through a recruiter–bidder mechanism after state information
is synchronized, enabling robots to recover from collaboration
failures using updated information.
When robot rk finds that its current optional-subtask set
contains only failed subtasks, it enters the free market for
reassignment. After arriving at the free market, rk first synchronizes recruitment messages and state information, and
then checks whether it can serve as a recruiter. Let Fk
denote the failed-subtask set maintained by rk . Let Rrec
denote the current recruiter set in the free market, and let
R<
k ⊆ Rrec denote the recruiters that published earlier than
rk . Robot rk becomes a recruiter only if it has not received
any valid recruitment message for a compatible subtask. In that
case, it selects one failed subtask from Fk according to the
shortfall-and-distance rule and publishes recruitment message
for subtask.

9

Let nkrem (t, j) represent the remaining number of typej robots that are available to recruiter rk at time t after
accounting for earlier recruitment requests. For each failed
subtask
q ∈ Fk , the shortfall is defined
below. ∆(q) =

P
k
j∈T max 0, nreq (q, j) − nrem (t, j) . Recruiter rk then selects the failed subtask with the minimum shortfall. The
selected subtask is defined below.
qk∗ = arg min ∆(q).
q∈Fk

(16)

If multiple candidates share the same minimum shortfall, rk
selects the one whose target region is nearest. After determining the subtask to be handled first, rk publishes a recruitment
message Ikbid = {τk , rk , qk∗ , ηk }. Here, τk is the publishing
time, and ηk is the type-cardinality requirement vector of the
recruitment message.
After recruitment messages are published, any robot in the
free market that is not acting as a recruiter is treated as a
bidder. Bidder rc selects a recruitment message according to
task priority and message publishing time. Let Mc (τn ) be
the set of active recruitment messages received by bidder
rc at time τn . The compatible message set is defined as
(τn ) = Ikbid ∈ Mc (τn ) rc is compatible with qk∗ .
Mcom
c
For each message Ikbid , let ρ(qk∗ ) denote the priority rank
of subtask qk∗ , where a smaller value means higher priority. The bidder-selected recruitment message is defined as
∗
I∗c = arg minIkbid ∈Mcom
(τn ) ρ(qk ), τk , where minimization is
c
lexicographic: bidders first select the highest-priority subtask,
and among subtasks with the same priority, they choose the
earliest published recruitment message. In this paper, highpriority subtasks refer to emergency subtasks issued by leaderdispatched recruiters, whereas low-priority subtasks refer to
failed or currently unassigned subtasks handled through freemarket reassignment.
During recruitment, recruiter rk may receive a compatible
recruitment message Ihbid and become a potential bidder. If the
currently available free-market robots are insufficient to satisfy
both recruitments simultaneously, rk compares (ρ(qh∗ ), τh )
with (ρ(qk∗ ), τk ). If ρ(qh∗ ) < ρ(qk∗ ), or if ρ(qh∗ ) = ρ(qk∗ ) and
τh < τk , then rk relinquishes its recruiter role, cancels its own
recruitment, and switches to bidder mode for Ihbid .
Recruiter rk follows the same first-come-first-served rule
described in Sec. VI-C2. Let Lk denote the bidder set currently
locked by recruiter rk . Upon receiving a bid from robot rc ,
recruiter rk sends a lock request Iklock = {qk∗ , IDc } to rc ,
where qk∗ is the recruited subtask and IDc is the ID of rc . The
uncommitted bidder rc replies with Icagree = {qk∗ , IDc } and
becomes locked. Once recruitment is completed, rk broadcasts
Ikfinish = {qk∗ }, and locked robots then proceed to execute qk∗ .
A bidder is unlocked if it receives no message from recruiter
rk within Tsend seconds, which indicates a presumed recruiter
failure, or if a higher-priority subtask arrives. The unlocking
timeout is defined below.



1
dc,k
,
(17)
Tsend = 1 +
D
fcom
where dc,k is the distance from bidder rc to recruiter rk , D is
the communication range, and fcom is the communication fre-

quency. In such cases, bidder rc transmits Icunlock = {qk∗ , IDc }
to prompt rk to remove it from the locked-robot list Lk .
D. Patrol Mechanism for Task Blocking
Temporal logic constraints can cause blocking while robots
wait for prerequisite subtasks to be confirmed. For example,
if subtask “inspect Zone B” is constrained to start only after
“verify tunnel entrance” is completed, a robot assigned to
Zone B may remain idle when the completion message from
the entrance team cannot be received in time under limited
communication. To address this issue, a patrol mechanism is
proposed to proactively gather and relay prerequisite status
information, thereby releasing blocked subtasks earlier. Let
Qk ⊆ Q denote the set of subtasks executable by robot rk .
For each qi ∈ Qk , let Pi denote the prerequisite-subtask
set of qi . For each prerequisite subtask qj ∈ Pi , robot rk
maintains an estimated completion time t̂k (qj ). The estimate
k,m
in Sec. VI-B2.
t̂k (qj ) is computed in the same form as Tlate
For subtasks constrained only by “do not start before the
prerequisite starts”, the same estimation logic is used, except
that the prerequisite start time is estimated by subtracting the
prerequisite execution duration from t̂k (qj ).
A robot triggers the patrol mechanism only when two
conditions are simultaneously satisfied: i) there is no currently
unassigned optional subtask that can be executed immediately,
and ii) for at least one pending subtask qi , the current time
exceeds the latest estimated completion time of its prerequisites, i.e., τnow > maxqj ∈Pi t̂k (qj ). This means the robot has
waited beyond the expected prerequisite completion horizon
but still cannot confirm prerequisite satisfaction from local
information. In this case, the robot starts patrol to actively
collect missing status updates. The initial patrol targets include
all regions associated with unresolved prerequisite subtasks
and the free market. During patrol, the target set is refined
as follows: i) remove regions whose prerequisites are already
completed or reliably verified, ii) skip prerequisites whose
successor subtasks have already started, iii) omit prerequisites
whose own predecessor conditions are still unmet, and iv)
update optional-subtask candidates and their estimated completion times using newly gathered information. Once at least
one executable optional subtask is identified, the robot exits
patrol and switches to task execution.
After patrol, if the estimated completion time is updated,
robots will re-patrol based on new timings; otherwise, robots
will wait tp seconds before the next patrol. The patrol interval
is defined below.
!
djf
+ max LC(aℓ )
(18)
tp = max max
qi ∈Qk qj ∈Pi
va aℓ ∈LA(qj )
where djf is the free-market-to-subtask distance. tp assumes
the subtask has failed and will be reassigned in the free market.
VII. ALGORITHM ANALYSIS
This section proves that, under the assumptions in Sec. III-B
and a finite subtask set (i.e., |Q| < ∞), the proposed algorithm
guarantees task completion.

10

Theorem 1: Completion of unfinished low-priority subtasks
handled through free-market reassignment is guaranteed.
Proof : Consider an unfinished low-priority subtask q. For
each type index j ∈ T , let nreq (q, j) denote the required
number of type-j robots, and let nfree (t′ , j) denote the number
of type-j robots in the free market at time t′ . Take any robot
rk that is capable of executing q. We first show that rk enters
k
the free market within a finite time Tbound
. For q, rk falls
into one of three cases: i) q ∈ Fk ; ii) the currently available
teammates are insufficient; iii) q has been assigned to other
robots. If q is non-collaborative, case iii) reduces to case
k
k
max
ii) after at most Tlate
(q).
 Tlate (q) ≤ Ttimeout ≤
 Moreover,
 d 
1
max
max
max
max Tenc , fcom +ts +Ltask according
αlate 1 + D
to Eq. (5) and Eq. (4), where dmax is the maximum workspace
distance, tmax
is the latest estimated subtask start time in
s
Sk (τn ), and Lmax
task = maxqj ∈Q maxai ∈LA(qj ) LC(ai ). Assume
max,k
that the maximum execution time of a subtask for rk is Ttask
.
The subtask execution time is finite, and co-safe LTL implies
|Q| < ∞. Therefore, robot rk enters the free market within a
finite time satisfying

max,k
k
max
Tbound
≤ |Q| Ttask
+ Ttimeout
.
Now consider three cases for q. i) Recruitment proceeds
without interruption by high-priority subtasks. According to
assumption iii) and the condition that robots do not issue
recruitment requests that exhaust free-market resources, all
robots capable of q enter the free market within a finite time.
Therefore, there exists a time t′ ∈ (t0 , ∞) such that
∀j ∈ T ,

nfree (t′ , j) ≥ nreq (q, j).

Hence, q can be successfully allocated. ii) The recruitment process is interrupted by emergency-subtask recruitment. Since
|Q| < ∞ and any departing robot rk is guaranteed to rejoin
k
, interruptions terminate in finite
the free market within Tbound
steps, which reduces to case i). iii) If q remains unposted, it
is because all capable robots are already engaged in earlier
recruitments. Since every existing recruitment falls into case
i) or ii), q will eventually be posted. Hence, in all cases, q will
eventually be posted and successfully allocated.
Theorem 2: The proposed algorithm guarantees all subtasks
will be completed under assumptions ii) and iii).
Proof : The feasibility of CBTA is discussed in [5]. Under
assumption iii), incomplete subtasks arise from: i) missing
prerequisite subtask information, ii) insufficient teammates, or
iii) expected robots fail to reach the target region. Case i)
is resolved by the patrol mechanism. In cases ii) and iii),
insufficient teammates and subtask failures eventually lead
robots to enter the free market, since |Q| < ∞. By Theorem
1, all subtasks will ultimately be completed.
Theorem 3: The proposed algorithm is complete. That is,
if there exists a feasible plan satisfying φ, then the proposed
algorithm is guaranteed to find a plan that satisfies φ.
Proof : The key idea in the proof is to first show that
feasible words are preserved after automaton pruning and
then use this fact to establish the existence of feasible paths,
task allocations, and executable robot trajectories. The detailed
proof follows the sequence of feasibility arguments for the

DFS-based path search, the task decomposition, CBTA task
allocation, and path planning for each assigned subtask.
Specifically, the automaton pruning step removes only infeasible transitions, and by Lemma 1, any word accepted
by the original NBA B has a corresponding word accepted
by the pruned automaton B − . Therefore, feasible words are
preserved. Next, since DFS is complete over finite graphs,
an accepting path in B − will be discovered. The accepting
path is then decomposed into a sequence of subtasks, which
by construction respects the temporal ordering encoded in φ.
Given the existence of a feasible path that satisfies all subtasks
and sufficient time, the CBTA-based allocation procedure is
guaranteed to find a feasible assignment.
If a subtask execution fails, Theorems 1 and 2 ensure that
the subtask can be reassigned and successfully executed by
another robot, guaranteeing completion of the overall plan.
During execution, feasible path planning for each assigned
subtask exists, as all transitions in B − correspond to realizable
motions in the workspace.
VIII. RESULTS
The algorithm is evaluated through simulations and physical
experiments. LTL formulas are converted to NBAs using
LTL2BA [38]. Simulations are run in Python 3 on an 11th
Gen Intel® Core™ i7-11390H with 16 GB RAM. Physical
experiments are conducted on Ubuntu 18.04 with ROS.
A. Numerical Simulation
We evaluate the proposed framework under communicationconstrained settings, with a focus on its effectiveness in
handling task blocking, dynamic robot changes, collaborative
coordination, and failure recovery. To this end, the proposed
framework is examined through four test scenarios:
i) Test 1 evaluates the patrol mechanism through an ablation
study. For each instance, the patrol mechanism is enabled or
disabled under the same task setting, while the communication
range is varied to examine how efficiently blocked prerequisite
subtasks are resolved and how this affects the final task
completion rate.
ii) Test 2 compares timeout-triggered recruitment with
timeout-based local recruitment [33] under multiple communication ranges. This comparison is used to evaluate the impact
of timeout-triggered recruitment on collaboration success and
overall completion efficiency.
iii) Test 3 evaluates free-market-based reassignment in preventing repeated subtask failures, using failure-to-tail reassignment as a baseline with D = 1.5 m. The goal is to examine
whether free-market-based reassignment can reduce repeated
failure chains and improve recovery stability under limited
communication.
iv) Test 4 evaluates the adaptability of the proposed framework to dynamic robot changes (e.g., robots joining or temporarily becoming unavailable during execution). We evaluate
whether the framework can maintain feasible allocation updates and continue task progress without global replanning.
The experimental setup consists of 12 target regions, denoted by L = {l1 , l2 , . . . , l12 }, and a 12-robot team comprising

11

three heterogeneous robot types: type-1, type-2, and type3. The spatial arrangement of regions and robot deployment
follows Fig. 3. To evaluate robustness under different tasklocation assignments, we treat the region labels l1 ∼ l12 as
permutable and generate 25 randomized benchmark instances
(Inst. 1–Inst. 25) by varying the label-to-location mapping
while keeping the underlying workspace geometry unchanged.

Fig. 4. The results of Test 1. Left: task completion rates under different
communication ranges. Right: simulation snapshots and explanation of the
differences between Case 1 (with patrol) and Case 2 (without patrol).
Fig. 3. Simulation environment for Tests 1–4. The 30 × 15 simulation
environment contains 12 target regions l1 ∼ l12 and 12 robots r1 ∼ r12 .

1) Test 1: Consider the LTL-specified global task φ =
12
12
7
12
12
6
7
2
♢((l2,1
∧l1,1
)∧♢((l2,2
∧¬(l2,1
∧l1,1
))∧♢(l2,1
∧¬l2,2
)))∧♢l3,1
∧
3
9
♢l3,1 ∧ ♢(l3,3 ∧ ¬p4 ). After preprocessing φ, the resulting
subtask set is Ωφ = {q1 , q2 , q3 , q4 , q5 , q6 }, where q1 =
9
3
2
{1, {l3,3
}, {p4 }}, q2 = {2, {l3,1
}, {}}, q3 = {3, {l3,1
}, {}},
12 12
7
q4 = {4, {l2,1 , l1,1 }, {}}, q5 = {5, {l2,2 }, {}},q6 =
6
{6, {l2,1
}, {}}. The objective of this experiment is to verify the
causal role of the patrol mechanism in resolving task blocking
under limited communication. To this end, we evaluate Inst. 1–
Inst. 25 under two settings: Case 1 (with patrol) and Case 2
(without patrol), while keeping task instances, robot settings,
and communication ranges identical. The only difference is
whether robots are allowed to proactively gather information.
As shown in Fig. 4, when communication range decreases,
Case 2 exhibits a significant decline in task completion rate
because blocked robots cannot reliably obtain prerequisite
updates and therefore remain in waiting states for long periods. Notably, Case 2 can still complete some instances at
small communication ranges when a blocked robot happens
to encounter another robot that already carries the required
prerequisite information; however, this information-recovery
path is opportunistic and unstable, and its success strongly
depends on workspace geometry, robot trajectories, and taskregion distribution. In contrast, Case 1 maintains a 100%
completion rate across all tested ranges: patrol converts passive
waiting into active information acquisition, closes prerequisiteinformation gaps in a structured way, and enables blocked
subtasks to be released in time without relying on chance
encounters. These results highlight the key advantage of the
patrol mechanism: it provides robust information recovery
under communication constraints, rather than probabilistic
recovery determined by incidental robot meetings.
2) Test 2: Considering the same global task φ as in Test 1,
we further evaluate timeout-triggered recruitment. Timeouttriggered recruitment (TTR) is compared with timeout-based
local recruitment (TLR) [33]. The two methods differ only in
how replacement candidates are searched after timeout: TLR
selects from robots currently reachable by the leader (usually
the nearest one), while TTR can dispatch a recruiter to the
free market to obtain additional qualified robots outside the

local communication neighborhood. In each run, one robot is
randomly removed during execution of q1 to create the same
failure trigger for both methods. Performance is measured by
the completion time of type-3-related subtasks (T3-subtask
time) under different communication ranges. We use this
metric instead of total mission time because it directly captures
recovery efficiency for the affected collaborative chain, while
total mission time can be perturbed by unrelated subtasks.
Fig. 5 and Table I show that TTR yields shorter T3subtask time in most instances, with the largest gains at
small communication ranges. The reason is that, under sparse
connectivity, TLR is constrained by local visibility and may
not find a feasible replacement quickly, whereas TTR expands
the search scope through the free market and therefore restores
collaboration earlier. When communication range is large, the
free market is effectively inside the connected neighborhood,
so TTR and TLR have similar candidate sets and similar
performance. The exceptions (e.g., Inst.2 and Inst.6) are also
explainable: both methods behave similarly because q2 and
q3 are far from initial robot positions and no suitable type3 robot is available in the free market at timeout; here
the dominant bottleneck is temporary resource scarcity, not
recruitment strategy. Overall, the experiment indicates that
TTR improves robustness mainly by enlarging the effective
replacement-search region under communication constraints.

Fig. 5. Comparison between TTR(proposed) and TLR. The positive values
indicating superior performance of TTR.

12

TABLE I
T3- SUBTASK TIME GAP BETWEEN TTR AND TLR UNDER DIFFERENT COMMUNICATION RANGES . A LL TIME GAPS ARE IN SECONDS ( S ).
D (m) Inst. 1 Inst. 2 Inst. 3 Inst. 4 Inst. 5 Inst. 6 Inst. 7 Inst. 8
3
11.29
0.03
19.56 27.82 16.75
0.12
16.22 52.07
5
16.26
0.12
27.73 37.31 24.61
0.23
15.48 10.20
10
26.13
0.02
0.00
43.70
0.11
0.09
0.00
10.28
Table I (continued)
D (m) Inst. 14 Inst. 15 Inst. 16 Inst. 17 Inst. 18 Inst. 19 Inst. 20
3
20.43
-0.19
23.10
18.41
13.53
0.32
19.91
5
16.57
-0.28
17.49
28.18
14.14
0.09
16.11
10
23.12
0.32
6.74
0.18
-0.24
0.27
24.31

Inst. 9 Inst. 10 Inst. 11 Inst. 12 Inst. 13
21.69
21.69
0.32
17.09
36.36
15.49
15.49
0.12
0.32
0.32
27.52
27.52
0.22
-0.25
0.32
Inst. 21 Inst. 22 Inst. 23 Inst. 24 Inst. 25
26.17
0.27
16.93
22.85
0.12
16.03
-0.13
27.78
15.56
0.09
25.08
-0.25
-0.02
26.04
0.27

Fig. 6. Comparison between FMR (proposed) and F2TR.

Fig. 7. Schematic comparison of collaborative-failure handling processes in
F2TR and the proposed method. Subfigures (a) and (b) illustrate the F2TR
process, while (c) and (d) illustrate the process of the proposed method.

3) Test 3: In scenarios with multiple collaborative subtasks
under limited communication, repeated failures can propagate
across temporally dependent tasks and substantially delay
mission completion. This test evaluates whether free-marketbased reassignment (FMR) can reduce such cascading delays
compared with failure-to-tail reassignment (F2TR), where
each failed subtask is appended to the end of the local
plan and retried later. The comparison is conducted over
Inst. 1–Inst. 25 under D = 1.5 m, using task completion
time as the primary metric. Consider the LTL-specified task
11
7
2
2
9
9
φ1 = ♢l1,2
∧ ♢l1,2
∧ ♢l1,2
∧ ♢((l2,1
∧ ¬l2,2
) ∧ ♢l2,2
). Let Ωφ =
2
9
{q1 , q2 , q3 , q4 , q5 }, where q1 = {1, {l2,1 }}, q2 = {2, {l2,2
}},
2
7
11
q3 = {3, {l1,2 }}, q4 = {4, {l1,2 }}, and q5 = {5, {l1,2 }}. Five
robots are deployed: r1 , r2 , r3 (type 1) and r4 , r5 (type 2).
To trigger representative collaborative failures, one type-1
robot is removed before the second (in execution order) type1 collaborative subtask is completed. This setting is critical
because the team has minimal redundancy: a single removal
can break feasibility of the current collaboration and force
reallocation. Under F2TR, this often leads to deferral and
repeated waiting in downstream subtasks. In contrast, FMR
synchronizes failure information in the free market and reallocates with a wider, updated candidate set, which is expected to
reduce repeated failures and shorten recovery latency. From a
mechanism perspective, the key difference is whether recovery
decisions are made with fragmented local views (F2TR) or
with synchronized team-state information (FMR).
As shown in Fig. 6, FMR generally outperforms F2TR
across most instances, indicating that the benefit is systematic

rather than case-specific. As shown in Fig. 7, the key reason
is that, under dense collaborative dependencies and limited
communication, a single failure often creates a “failure–
delay–reassignment” loop: delayed recovery of one subtask
postpones its successors, which increases the probability of additional waiting and repeated failures. F2TR tends to amplify
this loop because failed subtasks are deferred to the tail and
revisited with fragmented local information. In contrast, FMR
interrupts the loop by synchronizing failure states in the free
market and reallocating from a broader, updated candidate set,
which shortens recovery latency and reduces repeated failure.
The smaller gaps in instances such as Inst.3 and Inst.16
are also informative: when spatial layout and timing naturally
permit sufficient information exchange, even local-tail recovery can approach the performance of FMR. This suggests that
FMR’s main advantage appears in communication-stressed
or coordination-dense cases. Overall, the results support that
FMR improves not only average completion efficiency but also
resilience to chained collaborative-subtask disruptions.
4) Test 4: At D = 10 m, with regions l1 ∼ l12 arranged
as shown in Fig. 3, Test 4 evaluates the proposed framework
under dynamic changes in team composition by introducing
both robot addition and robot removal during task execution.
At t = 15, a new type-3 robot, r13 , joins the system.
After entering the communication range and synchronizing
with the team, r13 is incorporated into the candidate set
and assigned to subtask q2 . This online reallocation updates
the task assignment according to the new team composition,
thereby reducing the burden on the original team and yielding

13

a plan suited to the expanded set of available robots.
Later, at t = 80, robot r10 is removed, leaving collaborative
subtask q1 understaffed. In response, the leader robot r11
keeps the remaining participants in a waiting state while
checking whether the missing role can be filled locally. Once
the waiting time exceeds Twait , r11 activates the timeout-based
recovery mechanism and dispatches r9 as a recruiter to seek
a qualified replacement. After recruitment succeeds, the team
is re-formed, and q1 is eventually completed by r11 , r13 , and
r9 , as shown in Fig. 8.
From a process perspective, this scenario captures the full
evolution from disturbance to response and eventual recovery.
Specifically, the removal of r10 first introduces the risk of
collaborative-subtask failure due to an insufficient number of
participants for q1 ; the timeout-triggered recruitment mechanism then restores the required team size; and finally, task
execution returns to a consistent and stable state. Therefore,
the trajectory shown in Fig. 8 demonstrates not only successful
task completion, but also the effectiveness of the proposed
framework in supporting both collaborative-failure recovery
and online task reallocation under dynamic team changes.

is temporarily outside direct 2.0-meter communication range;
nevertheless, team coordination is preserved through freemarket-mediated information exchange, so execution does not
stall due to link interruption. Third, once the l3 -related subtask
is confirmed complete, r2 transitions to l2 to execute the
subsequent dependent task, showing that task handoff remains
consistent even across intermittent connectivity. Overall, the
physical experiment validates three key properties in combination: i) correctness of temporally constrained execution,
ii) communication resilience via the free market under range
limitations, and iii) continuity of distributed task progression
without centralized global replanning.
IX. CONCLUSIONS
This paper presents a distributed task allocation framework
with resilient task coordination for heterogeneous multi-robot
systems under temporal logic and communication constraints.
Starting from a global sc-LTL specification, the framework derives executable subtasks through automaton pruning and task
decomposition, and generates initial plans using CBTA. To
sustain task progress under limited communication, the framework incorporates two complementary coordination mechanisms: a patrol mechanism for resolving task blocking through
active information gathering, and a coordination mechanism
for collaborative subtasks that combines leader-based coordination, timeout-triggered recruitment, and free-market-based
reassignment. Theoretical analysis establishes task-completion
guarantees under the assumptions of this paper. Simulations
on 25 benchmark instances and a physical experiment demonstrate that the proposed framework improves the robustness
of distributed task coordination under incomplete and delayed
team-state information.
R EFERENCES

Fig. 8. Task timelines in Test 4. Wide blocks denote subtasks, narrow colored
blocks indicate waiting. Gray lines mean no subtask and not in the free market,
and other colored lines represent traveling toward the target region.

B. Physical Experiment
Consider the environment depicted in Fig. 9(a), where l1
denotes the sorting area, l2 the storage center, and l3 the monitoring room. Four robots of three distinct types operate with
a 2.0-meter communication range. The mission specification
2
4
1
1
2
3
2
1
∧ (¬l2,1
U l1,1
)∧
∧ l3,1
∧ l2,1
) ∧ ♢l3,1
∧ ♢l1,1
∧ ♢l2,1
φ = ♢(l1,1
1
1
1
3
(¬l1,1 U (l1,1 ∧ l3,1 ∧ l2,1 )) requires one robot of each type
(1, 2, and 3) to inspect, classify, and process goods in the
sorting area l1 ; a type-3 robot to inspect the storage area l2 ;
and, upon completion of the sorting tasks, a type-1 robot to
report in the monitoring room l3 , after which a type-2 robot
processes goods in the storage area l2 .
Experimental results (Fig. 9) show that the proposed mechanisms are effective in a real communication-limited setting.
First, the collaborative operation in l1 is completed before
the dependent actions in l3 , which is consistent with the
temporal-order constraints in φ and indicates that prerequisite
information is propagated in time to avoid logical blocking.
Second, after leaving l1 , robot r1 proceeds to l3 while r2

[1] Y. Qu, B. Xin, Q. Wang, R. Li, and Z. Du, “A novel memetic algorithm
for distributed shape formation of swarm robots with both acceleration
and velocity constraints,” Science China Information Sciences, vol. 67,
no. 12, p. 222201, 2024.
[2] H. Fang, S. Wei, Y. Shi, and J. Ou, “Multi-agent ergodic surveillance
under unknown target distribution,” Unmanned Systems, 2025, doi:
10.1142/S2301385025440054.
[3] L. Zhou, M. Jing, L. Zhong, Z. Yu, and X. Zeng, “Task-binding
based branch-and-bound algorithm for noc mapping,” in 2012 IEEE
International Symposium on Circuits and Systems (ISCAS). IEEE, 2012,
pp. 648–651.
[4] T. Okubo and M. Takahashi, “Simultaneous optimization of task allocation and path planning using mixed-integer programming for time and
capacity constrained multi-agent pickup and delivery,” in 2022 22nd
International Conference on Control, Automation and Systems (ICCAS).
IEEE, 2022, pp. 1088–1093.
[5] S. Wang, Y. Liu, Y. Qiu, and J. Zhou, “Consensus-based decentralized
task allocation for multi-agent systems and simultaneous multi-agent
tasks,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol. 7, no. 4, pp. 12 593–
12 600, 2022.
[6] L. Govoni and A. Cristofaro, “A decentralized control and task allocation
framework for heterogeneous redundant multiagent systems,” IEEE
Transactions on Cybernetics, 2025.
[7] Y. Wang, S. Ren, and C. Wang, “Multi-uav multi-task allocation based
on cognitive state-based hybrid contract net protocol,” in 2025 10th
International Conference on Computer and Communication System
(ICCCS). IEEE, 2025, pp. 921–926.
[8] A. Maoudj, B. Bouzouia, A. Hentout, A. Kouider, and R. Toumi,
“Distributed multi-agent approach based on priority rules and genetic
algorithm for tasks scheduling in multi-robot cells,” in IECON 201642nd Annual Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society.
IEEE, 2016, pp. 692–697.

14

Fig. 9. The dashed lines indicate the robot trajectories. In (a), l1 to l3 represent the areas of interest. There are three kinds of robots: {r1 }, {r2 } and
{r3 , r4 }. In (b)-(d), the robots are executing their subtasks.

[9] J. Xie and C.-C. Liu, “Multi-agent systems and their applications,”
Journal of International Council on Electrical Engineering, vol. 7, no. 1,
pp. 188–197, 2017.
[10] K. Leahy, D. Zhou, C.-I. Vasile, K. Oikonomopoulos, M. Schwager, and
C. Belta, “Persistent surveillance for unmanned aerial vehicles subject to
charging and temporal logic constraints,” Autonomous Robots, vol. 40,
no. 8, pp. 1363–1378, 2016.
[11] S. Xu, X. Luo, Y. Huang, L. Leng, R. Liu, and C. Liu, “Nl2hltl2plan:
Scaling up natural language understanding for multi-robots through
hierarchical temporal logic task specifications,” IEEE Robotics and
Automation Letters, pp. 1–8, 2025.
[12] C. Baier and J.-P. Katoen, Principles of model checking. MIT press,
2008.
[13] L. Li, Z. Chen, H. Wang, and Z. Kan, “Task allocation of heterogeneous
robots under temporal logic specifications with inter-task constraints and
variable capabilities,” IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and
Engineering, 2025.
[14] P. Yu and D. V. Dimarogonas, “Distributed motion coordination for
multirobot systems under ltl specifications,” IEEE Transactions on
Robotics, vol. 38, no. 2, pp. 1047–1062, 2021.
[15] S. L. Smith, J. Tŭmová, C. Belta, and D. Rus, “Optimal path planning
under temporal logic constraints,” in 2010 IEEE/RSJ International
Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems. IEEE, 2010, pp. 3288–
3293.
[16] A. Ulusoy, S. L. Smith, X. C. Ding, C. Belta, and D. Rus, “Optimality
and robustness in multi-robot path planning with temporal logic constraints,” The International Journal of Robotics Research, vol. 32, no. 8,
pp. 889–911, 2013.
[17] Y. Kantaros and M. M. Zavlanos, “Sampling-based optimal control
synthesis for multirobot systems under global temporal tasks,” IEEE
Transactions on Automatic Control, vol. 64, no. 5, pp. 1916–1931, 2018.
[18] ——, “Stylus*: A temporal logic optimal control synthesis algorithm for
large-scale multi-robot systems,” The International Journal of Robotics
Research, vol. 39, no. 7, pp. 812–836, 2020.
[19] X. Luo and M. M. Zavlanos, “Temporal logic task allocation in heterogeneous multirobot systems,” IEEE Transactions on Robotics, vol. 38,
no. 6, pp. 3602–3621, 2022.
[20] Z. Chen and Z. Kan, “Real-time reactive task allocation and planning
of large heterogeneous multi-robot systems with temporal logic specifications,” The International Journal of Robotics Research, vol. 44, no. 4,
pp. 640–664, 2024.
[21] P. Schillinger, M. Bürger, and D. V. Dimarogonas, “Decomposition
of finite ltl specifications for efficient multi-agent planning,” in Distributed Autonomous Robotic Systems: The 13th International Symposium. Springer, 2018, pp. 253–267.
[22] ——, “Simultaneous task allocation and planning for temporal logic
goals in heterogeneous multi-robot systems,” The International Journal
of Robotics Research, vol. 37, no. 7, pp. 818–838, 2018.

[23] J. Liu, F. Li, X. Jin, and Y. Tang, “Distributed task allocation for multiagent systems: A submodular optimization approach,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2412.02146, 2024.
[24] Z. Liu, M. Guo, W. Bao, and Z. Li, “Fast and adaptive multi-agent
planning under collaborative temporal logic tasks via poset products,”
Research, vol. 7, p. 0337, 2024.
[25] Y. Zhu et al., “Dexter-llm: Dynamic and explainable coordination
of multi-robot systems in unknown environments via large language
models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.14387, 2025.
[26] I. Filippidis, D. V. Dimarogonas, and K. J. Kyriakopoulos, “Decentralized multi-agent control from local ltl specifications,” in 2012 IEEE 51st
IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 2012, pp. 6235–6240.
[27] M. Guo and D. V. Dimarogonas, “Multi-agent plan reconfiguration under
local ltl specifications,” The International Journal of Robotics Research,
vol. 34, no. 2, pp. 218–235, 2015.
[28] ——, “Distributed plan reconfiguration via knowledge transfer in multiagent systems under local ltl specifications,” in 2014 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2014, pp. 4304–4309.
[29] D. Tian, H. Fang, Q. Yang, and Y. Wei, “Decentralized motion planning
for multiagent collaboration under coupled ltl task specifications,” IEEE
Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics: Systems, vol. 52, no. 6,
pp. 3602–3611, 2021.
[30] Z. Chen, L. Li, and Z. Kan, “Distributed task allocation and planning
under temporal logic and communication constraints,” IEEE Robotics
and Automation Letters, vol. 9, no. 7, pp. 6536–6543, 2024.
[31] C. H. Fua and S. S. Ge, “Cobos: Cooperative backoff adaptive scheme
for multirobot task allocation,” IEEE Transactions on Robotics, vol. 21,
no. 6, pp. 1168–1178, 2005.
[32] S. Choudhury, J. K. Gupta, M. J. Kochenderfer, D. Sadigh, and J. Bohg,
“Dynamic multi-robot task allocation under uncertainty and temporal
constraints,” Autonomous Robots, vol. 46, no. 1, pp. 231–247, 2022.
[33] V. C. Kalempa, L. Piardi, M. Limeira, and A. S. de Oliveira, “Multirobot preemptive task scheduling with fault recovery: A novel approach
to automatic logistics of smart factories,” Sensors, vol. 21, no. 19, p.
6536, 2021.
[34] C. Belta, B. Yordanov, and E. A. Gol, Formal methods for discrete-time
dynamical systems. Springer, 2017, vol. 89.
[35] X. Luo, S. Xu, R. Liu, and C. Liu, “Decomposition-based hierarchical
task allocation and planning for multi-robots under hierarchical temporal
logic specifications,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 2024.
[36] Z. Liu, M. Guo, and Z. Li, “Time minimization and online synchronization for multi-agent systems under collaborative temporal logic tasks,”
Automatica, vol. 159, p. 111377, 2024.
[37] C. Bettstetter, H. Hartenstein, and X. Pérez-Costa, “Stochastic properties
of the random waypoint mobility model,” Wireless networks, vol. 10,
no. 5, pp. 555–567, 2004.
[38] P. Gastin and D. Oddoux, “Fast ltl to büchi automata translation,” in
Computer Aided Verification, G. Berry, H. Comon, and A. Finkel, Eds.
Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2001, pp. 53–65.

